Open main1.py. Before running it, what do you expect this program to do? 

I expect this program to print out "Greetings!"
It will then ask me what my favorite color is and wait for my input.

Now right click on the window and select “Run Python File in Terminal”. Click in the bottom panel, and answer the question. Describe what happened. 

It printed "Greetings!"
It then asked me what my favorite color was, I said "black" and hit enter, and then it closed.

What do you think the program did with what you typed?

I don't think it did anything with my input.



Open main2.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main1.py. 

This is different from the first file because it stores my response in a variable and then prints the variable.

What do you think the color = input() will do? 

It will store the value that I input into a variable called color.

Run the program in the terminal and answer the question. Did the program do what you expected?

Yes it did what I expected.


Open main3.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 

This checks what the user inputs, if they input "Red", it will respond with "Correct!", but if anything else is entered it will say, "Sorry, try again"

What is happening on lines 11–14? 

A conditional statement is checking the user's input and comparing it to a value and giving different responses based on the value the user input.

Why are lines 12 and 14 indented? 

Because they are within the if and else statements.

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you don’t capitalize Red? 

It says, "Sorry, try again" and then closes.

What does this tell you about "color"?

That it is case-sensitive.



Open main4.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 

The difference in this one is that it checks if the user says "Red" or "red", making it not case sensitive

What problem is this trying to solve? 

This is trying to solve the problem of the user not making the first letter of "red" capitalized

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you use some other capitalization scheme (i.e., “RED” or “reD“)?

It still will not say "Correct!" if you use weird capitalizations.



Open main5.py. What do you expect line 11 to do? 

This will convert whatever the user types into all lower case.

What problem is it trying to solve? 

This is trying to solve the problem of the user using weird capitalizations, and will make sure no matter how they say "red", it'll work.

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you add spaces before or after the word (i.e., “  RED  “ or “ red”)?

If a space is placed before or after the word "red" it doesn't work.



Open main6.py. How is line 11 different than main5.py? 

It strips off white space before and after the characters.

What would you guess .strip() is doing? 

I'm guessing it strips off white space before and after the characters.

Run the program and answer the question. Is there another way of writing “red” that will break this logic?

Yes, you can write it like, "r e d".



Open main7.py. Before running this program, how do you expect this to be different than main6.py? 

This will give specific responses for "red" or "pink".

What is the purpose of line 11? 

It changes the input to all lower case and strips the white space before and after the string.

Run the program and answer the question.



Open main8.py. What is the purpose of line 11? 

it will continually run the program until the user enters "red"

Why are lines 12–19 indented? 

Because they are part of the while loop

Run the program. What would happen if line 12 were moved before line 11 (and no longer indented)? 

it would only ask for the favorite color once.

Make that change and run the program again. To end any Python program, you can type ctrl-c.



Open main9.py. What is happening on line 12? 

It is running a while loop that will continue until you answer "red"

What is the purpose of “count”? 

Count is keeping track of how many times the loop iterates so it can tell you how many guesses it took to guess the right color

What is happening on line 22? 

This line prints out how many times it took to guess "red" by using the variable count.

Run the program.


*Extra credit:* open main10.py. Add a comment to each line describing what it is doing (a comment follows a pound sign [#]). 

Commit your changes and push them back to the repository. 

Did you do the extra credit?

Yes, I did the extra credit.